# Black Holes

Wolfgang Kunt

[Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3151)

And how did those black holes form in the first place? Have not
centrifugal and pressure forces always exceeded the self attraction of
central galactic-mass accumulations? Why have the masses of the
observed central BHs decreased during cosmic epochs, from initial <=
10^9.5 M to their present-day <= 10^7M, as shown by the statistics of
the SDSSurvey (fig.4, Vestergaard et al 2008)? How could some of the
most massive ones already form within <= 0.8 Gyr after the Big Bang?
Why do their masses scale as 10^−2.85 times their bulge masses
(Marconi and Hunt 2003)? How do they blow their gigantic winds, and
why have those winds the chemistry of ashes from excessive nuclear
burning, being & 10^2-fold metal enriched (upto Fe)? How do they
generate their extremely hard spectra, (occasionally) peaking at &TeV
energies, even recorded (from PKS 2155-304) as minute-sharp,
hour-scale bursts (Weekes 2007), whilst accreting black holes
radiating at their Eddington rates are predicted to shine with
blackbody temperatures of KeV(M./M) 1/4 ?  Why are some of them
distinctly underluminous? Why does their high γ-ray compactness not
prevent them from forming jets, in the (10%) cases of their radio-loud
subpopulation, via inverse-Compton losses?  And, if all the
astrophysical jet sources are generated by a universal type of engine
– whose powerhouses are newly forming stars (like our Sun, in its
past), forming (binary) white dwarfs, binary neutron stars, and AGN –
this universal type of engine looks like a rotating magnet, not like a
[black hole]..

[Link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10714-009-0815-9)

These [galaxy] centers should behave as flat stars, or as (nuclear-)
burning disks (BDs) [Kundt's alternative theory instead of black
holes]. Their radiative efficiencies should (i) easily exceed those of
BH accretors; they should have (ii) strongly variable outputs, and
(iii) generate relativistic pair plasma in their reconnecting
magnetized coronae, ready to drive jets; their burning (iv) produces
large quantities of nuclear ashes, in particular of iron (Turnshek
1988), and they should certainly (v) blow strong winds (and thereby
discharge in mass). And moreover, (vi) these BDs would conform with
the cosmic evolution of the AGN phenomenon plotted in fig.2: Their
masses would shrink with age – not grow with age, as BH masses must –
when they discharge efficiently, via their strong winds... BH
proponents are aware of the inconsistent (sign of) evolution.. of
course, but have forced it to agree with their expectation by using
words like ”downsizing”, ”antihierarchical”, ”co-evolution”, ”feedback
from SNe and AGN”, and the like; the BH paradigm must not be
sacrificed.

[Link](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/272370922_A_Brief_Observational_History_of_the_Black-Hole_Spacetimes)

Already Victor Ambartsumian noted.. that galactic centers are observed
to eject, rather than to swallow...  [M]idi BHs have only been
considered seriously once in 1974, as a possible explanation for the
1908 Tunguska catastrophe, even though no mechanism for their
formation had ever been proposed. They were refuted by Beasley and
Tinsley [26], based on an absence of tsunamis in the Pacific during
the days of that event (which would have been raised by the midi BH
during its exit from the ocean, after having crossed the Earth). Note
that in my understanding, the Tunguska event has not been an infall
event from outside, rather an ejection event from inside, a
kimberlite.

Next, explosions of mini BHs have been ruled out by Joe Taylor by a
large margin, via an absence of detected radio bursts of the implied
kind. And I have never been shown convincing evidence of a maxi BH
either, throughout the decades since their proposition [12]. Note that
yet another class of BHs has been taken seriously in 2012, when CERN’s
Large Hadron Collider was assigned to search for the Higgs particle,
quantum mini BHs, much lighter than the Planck mass, whose growth was
feared to possibly swallow the whole city of Geneva. Fortunately for
our home planet Earth, this most dangerous class of BHs has not shown
up either.

BHs have thus remained unobserved objects in all weight classes. Even
worse, the book by Yvan Leblanc claims that BH thermodynamics is
inconsistent with standard textbooks on physics. A number of further
people support his view, among them Vladimir Belinski. The publication
of my own reply to Hawking’s launching paper on BH entropy, in [1976],
was delayed by more than half a year and eventually printed without
sending me proof sheets and with 13 typos added. In it, I pointed out
that his definition of BH entropy was inconsistent with the textbook
definition of entropy in physics. (Textbook entropy scales linearly
with mass, Hawking’s entropy scales quadratically with it.)

Concerning proposals to combine GR with quantum mechanics, my own
understanding is that quantum theory must not be applied to systems
all of whose particles are purely macroscopic, that is, are much
larger than their de Broglie wavelength. This criterion covers also
the very recent proposal by Vaz.

<a name='centralengine'></a>

[Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/9810059)

The Central Engine of an Active Galactic Nucleus is commonly [and
incorrectly] believed to be a supermassive Black Hole, after Donald
Lynden-Bell (1969) and Martin Rees (1977). Alternative, more
conservative interpretations – like star clusters, or a supermassive
star (spinar, magnetoid) – have been rejected by (i) variability
arguments: a huge power is modulated on short timescales, (ii) an
absence of (spin) periodicities, (iii) energy arguments: is there
enough (nuclear) fuel?, and (iv) stability arguments: any other type
of engine should evolve into a black hole.

Yet (i) the time-integrated QSO activity should have left more than
10^4 times the mass in the centers of galaxies in the form of black
holes than there is now in our cosmic neighbourhood, and (ii) the
broad-line region signals as much outflow of mass on average as
spirals in, both inconsistent with a monotonic accumulation of mass in
galactic centers. Further difficulties of the Black-Hole model are
(iii) the hard spectra – occasionally peaking above TeV
photon-energies – , (iv) the high pair-plasma opacity – which would
forbid jet- formation – , and (v) the inverted QSO evolution – having
the brightest sources at the beginning.

For these reasons, I favour a less massive variant of the spinar
model: the (nuclear-) burning center of the galactic disk – of mass
several 10^6 M. and solar-system extent – which is continually
refuelled, and evolves (radially inward) through main-sequence
hydrogen burning towards explosive He and ‘metal’ detonating all the
way to iron, thereby ejecting the ashes of nuclear burning.

[Video](https://www.youtube.com/embed/BhDpApRa6BI)

There is now a group of young theorists in the world who think that
the ultimate field equations should not allow for singularities,
because they describe measurements, and our measurements never get
something singular. Our measurements get something finite, otherwise
it's not a physical. So good theories are free of singularities, [the
ones with singularities] must not be admitted. And we notice now we
don't need them, we don't need them because our neutron stars stay
regular. Our measurements.. will stay regular, and finite.

[[Up](../../2018/09/junk-science.html)]

