# H.R. 2048

Link

Last week, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that
the bulk telephone metadata program run by the [NSA] is not authorized
by Section 215 of the Patriot Act and is thus unlawful. The ruling is
a big win for privacy and civil liberties advocates who have long
argued that Section 215 clearly does not contemplate the type of mass
collection we now know is occurring. But the win will be short-lived
if H.R. 2048 [..] that’s scheduled to be considered by the House of
Representatives this afternoon, becomes law.

Section 215 authorizes the government to collect records and other
“tangible things” that are "relevant" to a terrorism or foreign
intelligence investigation. To support the bulk collection of data
pertaining to millions of law-abiding Americans, the government has
effectively claimed that all records everywhere are potentially
relevant to a current or future investigation, and thus all records
are fair game for collection. In its ruling, the Second Circuit had
little choice but to reject the government's broad interpretation of
"relevant," given that the rest of the statute gives no indication
Congress ever contemplated collection on such a mass scale.

So far, so good.

But H.R. 2048 threatens to undo much of the progress resulting from
the Second Circuit’s opinion. The bill's sponsors, and unfortunately
some outside advocacy groups, wrongly claim that H.R. 2048 ends "bulk"
collection. It's true that the bill ends the phone dragnet as we
currently know it—by having the phone companies themselves hold,
search, and analyze certain data at the request of the government,
which is worse in many ways given the broader set of data the
companies hold—but H.R. 2048 actually expands the statutory basis for
the large-scale collection of most data.

H.R. 2048 does this by authorizing the government to order the
production of records based upon a “specific selection term” (i.e.,
like a search term used in a search engine). The records sought still
must be relevant to an investigation, so it’s possible the court’s
ruling will continue to restrain the government in some fashion. But
it’s more likely a court looking at H.R. 2048’s language will see the
“specific selection term” as defining the outer limits of what
Congress considers acceptably “relevant” under Section 215.

Indeed, the Second Circuit encouraged Congress in reforming Section
215 to make a “congressional judgment as to what is ‘reasonable’ under
current circumstances.” Unfortunately, “specific selection term” is
defined so broadly under the bill as to have little effect on
narrowing the scope of items the government may obtain through a 215
order.

A “specific selection term” may be a specific person (including a
corporation, such as Western Union), account, address, or personal
device, but it also may be “any other specific identifier,” and the
bill expressly contemplates using geographic regions or communication
service providers (such as Verizon) to define the records sought, so
long as it's not the only identifier used as part of the specific
selection term. In other words, the bill doesn't let the government
require Verizon to turn over all its records without limitation, but
nothing appears to prevent the government from requiring Verizon to
turn over all its records for all its customers in the state of New
York. Only a politician or bureaucrat wouldn't call that "bulk."







