# 1973

An interesting time..  Listed some big events of the year below

---

Opposition to South African apartheid within the U.N. grows, and in
1973 a U.N. resolution labels apartheid a “crime against humanity.”

Marlon Brando won the Oscar for best actor, but he chose to boycott
the ceremony, declined the award as a protest against Hollywood's
portrayal of Native Americans. He sent a native American actress
acquiantance to the ceremony to deny the award in his place. Some
of the exchange can be seen [here](https://twitter.com/rafaelshimunov/status/1447570025494327300). 
The Clint Eastwood comment in the end was particularly hilarious who
is obviously known for his roles in the Wild-West movies of the era.
The Clint Eastwood movie released that year was [this](magnum-force.jpeg). 

Denis Ritchie published his research paper on the famous computer
language called C. "The development of the C programming language was
a huge step forward and was the right middle ground - C struck exactly
the right balance, to let you write at a high level and be much more
productive, but when you needed to, you could control exactly what
happened" says Bill Dally, chief scientist of NVIDIA and Bell
Professor of Engineering at Stanford. "[It] set the tone for the way
that programming was done for several decades."

The government agency DARPA funds the outfitting of a packet radio
research van at SRI to develop standards for a Packet Radio Network
(PRNET). As the unmarked van drives through the San Francisco Bay
Area, stuffed full of hackers and sometimes uniformed generals, this
tech was to become the basis of wireless, packet-switched digital
networks, including the kind your mobile phone uses today.

Black and Sholes published their paper on pricing options, this work
would earn them the (fake) Nobel Prize for economics later.

The Bureau of Narcotics was replaced by the DEA, a more professional
organization with a global network of agents.

Thompson, Ritchie, and others at AT&T Bell Labs began developing a
small operating system on a little-used PDP-7. The operating system
was soon christened Unix, a pun on an earlier operating system project
called MULTICS. In 1973 the system was rewritten in the programming
language C, an unusual step that was visionary: due to this decision,
Unix was the first widely-used operating system that could switch from
and outlive its original hardware [..] The U in Unix is rumored to
stand for uniplexed as opposed to the multiplexed of Multics, further
underscoring the designers' rejections of Multics' complexity in favor
of a more straightforward and workable approach for smaller computers.

The War Powers Act is passed which attempts to define when and how the
US president could send troops to battle by adding strict time frames
for reporting to Congress after sending troops to war, in addition to
other measures.

Professor Lighthill was asked by the UK Parliament to evaluate the
state of AI research in the United Kingdom. His report, now called the
Lighthill report, criticized the utter failure of AI to achieve its
"grandiose objectives.". This is the beginning of the so-called AI
Winter where funding for the field were substantially reduced.

With the Smithsonian Agreement, most of the world's currencies
switched to a floating exchange rate joining United States who had
switched two years previously.

The OPEC oil embargo on the United States.

Vietnam War ended, Paris Piece Accords signed.

The Nixon administration began negotiations on what came to be known
as "the petrodollar recycling system". Under the arrangement Saudis
would only sell their oil in US dollars, and invest the excess of
their oil earnings in US banks, capital markets. The IMF would then
use this money to facilitate loans to oil importers who could be
having difficulty in covering the increase in oil prices. The
arrangement kept the price of dollar high which allowed US to print
money and buy anything it wants. It is claimed making sure most oil is
sold in dollars is at the root of most American wars after the 70s.

Nixon abandoned price controls at the start of the year.

Nixon was inaugurated for his second term in office.

Just two days after Nixon's inauguration, his predecessor, former
President Lyndon Johnson, suffered a heart attack and died.

Watergate hearings begin.

Committee on the Environment is created in the European Parliament.

After the oil embargo Nejat Veziroglu, an Anatolian born scientist,
formed the Clean Energy Research Institute (CERI) at the University of
Miami to investigate alternate energy sources. Veziroglu however
already had done extensive research on hydrogen as a fuel use (on
planetary missions) and knew it to be a viable
resource. Organization's findings confirmed this, so Veziroglu
organized the first major conference next year on hydrogen energy, and
started popularizing its use. Words such as "hydrogen economy" were
first coined by Dr. Veziroglu.

The Global Positioning System (GPS) project was started by the
U.S. Department of Defense.

The secular and modernising Daoud Khan, an Afghan PM, toppled his
cousin, King Zahir Shah along with the monarchy came to power in
Afghanistan to become its first President. Taliban's history includes
many Islamists who opposed to his regime and started fighting his
government.

Syria and Egypt launched the Yom Kippur War against Israel. Though the
war reinforced Israel's military deterrence, it had a stunning effect
on the population in Israel. Following their victory in the Six-Day
War, the Israeli military had become complacent. The shock and sudden
reversals that occurred at the beginning of the war inflicted a
terrible psychological blow to the Israelis, who had hitherto
experienced no serious military challenges.

Britain entered the European common market.

Roe vs Wade: SCOTUS ruled that the Constitution of the United States
generally protected a right to have an abortion in a landmark decision.

On April, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) was formed to
trade options on common stocks. This marked the first time an option
was traded on an exchange.

World Trade Center in New York becomes the tallest building in the
world.

The Sears Tower in Chicago is finished, becoming the new world's
tallest building in the world, beating WTC's record, in the same year.

Chilean coup against the elected government of left-wing president
Allende. The military dictatorship under General Pinochet took power
on September 11. This is basically 9/11 for Chileans.

Student-led rebellion, demonstrations against the military junta in
Greece.

Newly created Bangladesh elects first Prime Minister.

Sydney Opera House is opened.

The Bosporus Bridge is completed joining Europe and Asia in Istanbul,
at the 50th anniversary of the republic's foundation, a few weeks
after a new government was elected (the gov, comprised of largely
leftists, partly Islamists, did not last long, and its only important
decision would be to invade Cyprus next year, which in turn, helped
trigger the fall of the junta in Greece, kinda like British invasion
of the Falklands triggering the fall of the junta in Argentina).

Wage increase started to slow, a situation that lasted well until today.
The link between productivity increases and wage increase broke, and
continued to diverge ever since. Labor's share of income starts decreasing
the same year (from [link](https://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2017/labor-share-of-output-has-declined-since-1947.htm))

Leonid Brezhnev visits Bonn - first time a Soviet leader ever set foot
in West German territory.

According to the Polity dataset and looking at yearly averaged
democracy scores, democracy fell to its lowest point in the 20th
century. 

Clifford Cocks, working in secrecy at the United Kingdom’s Government
Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) discovered a public-key based
cryptosystem, three years before Ronald Rivest, Adi Shamir, and
Leonard Adleman publicized the same approach called RSA.

Mr. Metcalfe and his colleagues at Xerox PARC adopted and tweaked the
[wireless communication] ALOHAnet technology in creating Ethernet.

China was in the midst of their infamous Cultural Revolution
(66-76). Mao Zedong started his Criticize Lin (Biao), Criticize
Confucius campaign this year which lasted until the end of the
Revolution.

Skylab, the United States' first space station, is launched.

Genetic engineering based on recombination was pioneered by American
biochemists Stanley N. Cohen and Herbert W. Boyer, who were among the
first to cut DNA into fragments, rejoin different fragments, and
insert the new genes into E. coli bacteria, which then reproduced.

Economist Milton Friedman convinced Richard Nixon to end the military
conscription.

Spanish PM is assassinated in Madrid by the Basque separatist group
ETA. The assassination is considered to be the biggest attack against
the state since the end of the Spanish Civil War in 1939.

Cheap gasoline and an endless real estate boom were hallmarks of the
thirty years of postwar American dominance and prosperity; both ended
in 1973–1974. There were shortages of gasoline, electricity, and even
onions, and rumors of insufficient stockpiles of everything from
mustard to vegetable oil to cat food. In November of 1973,
*The Tonight Show* host Johnny Carson made a joke about a toilet paper
shortage, prompting a run on toilet paper as Americans rushed to buy
every roll they could find.

The [Dutch] government began to re-address the city’s cycling
infrastructure in response to an inordinate amount of deaths from the
sudden influx of vehicles on the roads after WWII. The "Stop de
Kindermoord" ("Stop Child Murder") protest movement arose in revolt of
a government advancing the ideals of the 'functionalist' city. The
protests (sometimes of a violent and extreme nature) highlighted the
number of child deaths caused by the high density of cars travelling
through the city. The Dutch people successfully fought for the
regeneration of a safe cycle, pedestrian and child friendly city.

George Foreman beats Frazer (who had beaten Ali beforehand) in a
surprise win and becomes champion. Ali would beat Foreman the next
year and also beat Frazer later on.

The first spacecraft to ever reach Jupiter, NASA’s Pioneer 10 reached
Jupiter on December 3, 1973.

Mariner 10 a space probe launched by NASA flied by the planets Mercury
and Venus. It was the first spacecraft to perform flybys of multiple
planets.

Hip-hop was born. In New York August 11th, an 18 year old DJ who went
by the name DJ Kool Herc began speaking over the beat of the music
reminiscent of the toasting style heard in Jamaica, it wasn't long
before the style could be heard all over New York and that made way
for a range of art including Sugar Hill Gang and Rapper's Delight
which took hip-hop mainstream in the 1980s.

A chef named Peng Chang-kuei created the General Tso's Chicken, he was
a banquet chef for Chinese Nationalists and he fled to Taiwan with
them after their 1949 defeat by Mao Zedong’s Communists. It was there
that he came up with the general idea for the dish, and he brought it
to the States when he immigrated to New York in 1973.

Richard Pryor hit the Comedy Store for a night recording of which
yielded one of the greatest comic documents of all time.

Bruce Lee dies. 

Hang glider manufacturer Wills Wing is founded in Southern
California. Their award winning hang glider and its later
reincarnations helped multiple pilots break long-distance records,
1990, 2013, including the current record in 2020, by Owen Morse.

The use of supercomputers to solve aerodynamic problems began to pay
off around this time. One early success was the experimental NASA
aircraft called HiMAT (Highly Maneuverable Aircraft Technology),
started in 1973, designed to test concepts of high maneuverability for
the next generation of fighter planes. Wind tunnel tests of a
preliminary design for HiMAT showed that it would have unacceptable
drag at speeds near the speed of sound; if built that way the plane
would be unable to provide any useful data. The cost of redesigning it
in further wind tunnel tests would have been around $150,000 and would
have unacceptably delayed the project. Instead, the wing was
redesigned by a computer at a cost of 6,000 dollars.

Joe Biden joins the Senate.

Akaike Information Criteron discovered.

The finite volume method that was introduced into the field of
numerical fluid dynamics for the solution of two-dimensional,
timedependent Euler equations were extended by Rizzi and Inouye (1973)
to three-dimensional flows.

J. R. R. Tolkien, the creator of Lord of the Rings lore, died

Leaders in 1973

Pierre Trudeau (Justin Trudeau's father) was the Prime Minister in
Canada, Willy Brandt (guy who fell on his knees apologizing for DE
actions in WWII later) was Germany's Chancellor, Mao Zedong was
leading China, Indira Gandhi was PM in India (first and to date the
only female Indian PM).

Movies Released in 1973

James Bond *Live and Let Die*, Soylent Green, The Exorcist, Don Juan,
American Graffiti, The Sting. Westworld, and of course Clint Eastwood's
[Magnum Force](magnum-force.jpeg).

Movies Taking Place in 1973

*Kong: Skull Island* takes place right after the piece concluding the
Vietnam War, and some of the soldiers dealing with that aftermath go
to an island where they encounter a giant orangutan.

*X-Men: Days of Future Past* has the character Wolverine going back in
time to 1973 to fix some problems that would unravel in the future. He
wakes up in US next to a lava lamp.

Books

The Princess Bride, Rendezvous with Rama.

