# Carbon Capture

### Amine Based Techniques

[Link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772656822000124)

Amine solvent-based technology has recently established itself as a
viable technology for CO2 capture.. This technology applies to the
polluting power industry, especially for high CO2 producing coal-fired
plants. Post combustion CO2 capture from flue gas is the dominating
technology for this purpose.

Dr. Thomas Adams [1, pg. 239]

Methyl-diethanolamine is quite selective for CO2 over H2 (meaning it
will dissolve CO2 in large amounts, but H2 in very small amounts), so
it is ideal for CO2 / H2 separations.

[Link](https://www.smh.com.au/environment/sustainability/how-i-became-a-convert-to-hydrogen-20191220-p53lyz.html)


### Pressure Swing Adsorption Units

Explanation from [2]

Pressure swing adsorption units use beds of solid adsorbent to separate impu-
rities from hydrogen streams leading to high-purity high-pressure hydrogen and
a low-pressure tail gas stream containing the impurities and some of the hydro-
gen. The beds are then regenerated by depressurizing and purging...

The pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology is based on a physical
binding of gas molecules to adsorbent material. The respective force
acting between the gas molecules and the adsorbent material depends on
the gas com- ponent, type of adsorbent material, partial pressure of
the gas component, and operating temperature. The separation effect is
based on differences in binding forces to the adsorbent
material. Highly volatile components with low polarity, such as
hydrogen, are practically nonadsorbable as opposed to molecules such
as nitrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, hydrocarbon derivatives,
and water vapor. Consequently, these impurities can be adsorbed from a
hydrogen-containing stream, and high-purity hydrogen is recovered...

The pressure swing adsorption process works at basically constant
temper- ature and uses the effect of alternating pressure and partial
pressure to perform adsorption and desorption. Since heating or
cooling is not required, short cycles within the range of minutes are
achieved. The process consequently allows the economical removal of
large amounts of impurities. Adsorption is carried out at high
pressure (and hence high respective partial pressure) typically in the
range of 10–40 bar until the equilibrium loading is reached. At this
point in time, no further adsorption capacity is available, and the
adsorbent material must be regenerated. This regeneration is
accomplished by lowering the pressure to slightly above atmospheric
pressure resulting in a respective decrease in equi- librium
loading. As a result, the impurities on the adsorbent material are
des- orbed, and the adsorbent material is regenerated. The amount of
impurities removed from a gas stream within one cycle corresponds to
the difference of adsorption to desorption loading. After termination
of regeneration, pressure is increased back to adsorption pressure
level, and the process starts again from the beginning.

### Commentary

Andrew Finkel, Former Chief Scientist of Australia

I learnt from researchers that CCS for hydrogen production is
significantly more cost-effective for two crucial reasons. First,
since carbon dioxide is left behind as a residual part of the hydrogen
production process, there is no additional step, and little added
cost, for its extraction. And second, because the gas mixture at the
output of the process is at much higher pressure than flue gases, the
extraction of the carbon dioxide is more energy efficient and it is
easier to store... [T]he United Nations IPCC special report last year
.. spoke of the importance of CCS for mitigating emissions












References

[1] Adams, Learn Aspen Plus in 24 Hours, Second Edition

[2] Speight, Heavy Oil Recovery and Upgrading

