# McKinsey on Automation

In a new study that is optimistic about automation yet stark in its
appraisal of the challenge ahead, McKinsey says massive government
intervention will be required to hold societies together against the
ravages of labor disruption over the next 13 years. Up to 800 million
people—including a third of the work force in the U.S. and
Germany—will be made jobless by 2030, the study says.

The bottom line: The economy of most countries will eventually replace
the lost jobs, the study says, but many of the unemployed will need
considerable help to shift to new work, and salaries could continue to
flatline. "It's a Marshall Plan size of task," Michael Chui, lead
author of the McKinsey report, tells Axios.

In the eight-month study, the McKinsey Global Institute, the firm's
think tank, found that almost half of those thrown out of work—375
million people, comprising 14% of the global work force—will have to
find entirely new occupations, since their old one will either no
longer exist or need far fewer workers. Chinese will have the highest
such absolute numbers—100 million people changing occupations, or 12%
of the country's 2030 work force.

I asked Chui what surprised him the most of the findings. "The degree
of transition that needs to happen over time is a real eye opener," he
said.

The details:

Up to 30% of the hours worked globally may be automated by 2030.

The transition compares to the U.S. shift from a largely agricultural
to an industrial-services economy in the early 1900s forward. But this
time, it's not young people leaving farms, but mid-career workers who
need new skills. "There are few precedents in which societies have
successfully retrained such large numbers of people," the report says,
and that is the key question: how do you retrain people in their 30s,
40s and 50s for entirely new professions?

Just as they are now, wages may still not be sufficient for a
middle-class standard of living. But "a healthy consumer class is
essential for both economic growth and social stability," the report
says.

The U.S. should therefore consider income supplement programs, to
establish a bottom-line standard of living.

Whether the transition to a far more automated society goes smoothly
rests almost entirely "on the choices we make," Chui said. For
example, wages can be exacerbated or improved. Chui recommended "more
investment in infrastructure, and that those workers be paid a middle
wage."

Do not attempt to slow the rollout .. robotization, the report urged,
but instead accelerate it, because a slowdown "would curtail the
contributions that these technologies make to business dynamism and
economic growth."
